One of the important concerns policy makers and city planners have is resource availability and allocation. They are responsible for resource availability and its efficient allocation to residential needs. These resources and the way they are allocated can be dependent on the demographic composition of a city’s residents. The residential demographic multiplier is a tool developed to help with this issue. The residential demographic multiplier measures the average demographic composition of household units (Wong et al., 2016). For example, different types of households have varying units and structures, and within these variances are various differences in value and occupancy. Using this, policy makers can base public resource allocation depending on the type of housing that will attract a certain demographic that the residential demographic multiplier predicts. The multipliers help indicate the impact of new housing on the city resources and demand.

For my data, I use  2015 ACS 5-year PUMS data for the replication portion and 2020 ACS 5-year PUMS for extension portion. Each sample contains the same variables and is based on households and persons data collected from the 1% ACS samples for the respective years of the 5 year sample sets. The variables within the data are used to create housing configurations and generate multipliers. Housing configurations are created using the units in structure variable to describe the housing type and structure and number of bedrooms to determine how many occupants a structure can hold. Age is used to identify school-age children in the sample to generate multipliers for total-school age children. Additional variables that can be used are rent and property value determine housing value and gross rent that help identify demographics of occupants.

I use two housing configurations to generate multipliers: single-family detached two bedroom property and 2 unit multi-family two bedroom property. There are several other housing configurations that multipliers can be explored under like single-family attached and larger multi-family units, as well as further detailing with different bedrooms of property value ranges. To estimate the residential demographic multipliers, I followed the methodology in the original authors’ paper. After obtaining my samples and variables, I created and populated housing configurations for specific structure types and amount of bedrooms. To calculate the multipliers, I divided the weighted number of occupants further categorized by different age cohorts by the weighted number of households. To calculate the multipliers for total occupants, I divided the number of unique persons by the number of unique households within the sample. To calculate the multipliers for total school-age children, I divided the number of school-age children by the number of unique households within the sample.

The replication of the two housing configurations produced similar trends that the original paper reported. In the original paper, they reported a decline in the total persons and school-age children from 2000 to 2015. The results of the replication I produced based on 2015 ACS 5yr IPUMS data also follow this trend when compared with the multipliers reported in 2006. For the single-family detached 2 bedroom housing configuration I generated, the multipliers were 1.99 for total persons and 0.20 for total school-age children. For the multi-family detached 2 bedroom housing configuration I generated, the multipliers were 2.13 for total persons and 0.32 for total school-age children. The results of the extension I produced based on 2020 ACS 5yr IPUMS show a potential leveling out in this decline. For the single-family detached 2 bedroom housing configuration, the multipliers were 1.98 for total persons and 0.19 for total school-age children. For the multi-family detached 2 bedroom housing configuration, the multipliers were 2.11 for total persons and 0.30 for total school-age children.
Wong, Miles, D., Connor, G., Queenan, B., & Shott, A. (2017). Residential Demographic Multipliers: Using Public Use Microdata Sample Records To Estimate Housing Development Impacts. Cityscape (Washington, D.C.), 19(3), 415–428.
